Add example Rmarkdown notebook (#6)
AlexsLemonade/rrp-workshop-exercises: analyses/mutation_counts/02_mutation-count-plots.Rmd

The `::` notation can also help avoid errors when more than one package uses the same name for a function. 
In that case, the most recently loaded function will be used, but that may not be what you want!
One of the most commonly seen conflicts is from the `dplyr` package, which has some of the same function names as base R packages, as you can see in the warning messages printed when it loads below.

In the `01_count-gene-mutations.R` script, we used the `dplyr::` prefix for all of the `dplyr` functions to avoid this conflict and provide the extra context.
In this notebook, we load the `dplyr` package (despite the risk) with the knowledge that we will not be using the base R versions of the conflicting functions.
We can also take comfort in the fact that we and others reading the code are likely to be familiar with the (commonly-used) `dplyr` package, and with `ggplot2`, which we will be using for our plots.

```{r packages}
library(dplyr) # data wrangling tools
library(ggplot2) # the plotting package we will use

> library(magrittr) # the "pipe" (%>%) we will use to facilitate sequential operations

Reviewer: Since `dplyr` imports this the `magrittr` load isn't strictly needed, but this approach also makes it more "verbose" that we're piping. I don't mind either way.

```

### Specify files and paths

We like to specify all our input and output paths toward the top of the notebook, making them easy to find and update as needed.
During development, we might not know exactly what files are needed at the start, so this may not get *written* first, but having a consistent and prominent place where all paths are defined makes it easy to quickly determine what files are needed and where they will be found.

Since this is an `Rmarkdown` file, all of the file paths will be relative to the location of this file.

> This means that if the file moves, the paths would move, which can be annoying!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This means that if the `Rmarkdown` file moves, the relative paths to files we are interacting with would change, which can be annoying and confusing!
```

A nice solution we can use is the [`here` package](https://here.r-lib.org), which will allow us to specify paths relative to the project root directory.
The project root is found by looking for an R project file with the `.Rproj` extension in a parent directory from the file (or a `.git` directory if there is no project file).

We will also take advantage of the fact that the `file.path()` function (and the `here::here()` function), allows us to specify paths as a series of comma-separated partial paths, i.e., individual directories and files.
If we knew everyone were using a UNIX machine, we could use a path like `analysis/gene_counts`, but this syntax is a bit less portable to other systems.
(Thankfully, paths like this *do* work on Windows now!)
Using the separated list of elements also makes it easier to join partial paths together.

> We won't have to worry about whether a partial path ends with a separator slash or not; `file.path()` will add it as needed!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We won't have to worry about whether a partial path ends with a separator slash  (`/`) or not; `file.path()` will add it as needed!
```

### Make plots

We'll start by using the most basic version of the plotting function we defined earlier, with no highlighting, using the LGAT data:

```{r}
plot_gene_mutations(lgat_df)
```

We do want to make sure we highlight any frequently mutated genes, so let's add that argument, highlighting the genes from the FLAGS data set (stored in `flags_df`):

```{r}
plot_gene_mutations(lgat_df, 
                    highlight_genes = flags_df$gene, 
                    highlight_title = "Frequently mutated")
```

If we want, we can save the plot object we made into its own variable, and since it is a ggplot object, we can also add additional content or formatting that the function might not have supported.

```{r}
lgat_plot <- plot_gene_mutations(lgat_df, 
                                 highlight_genes = flags_df$gene, 
                                 highlight_title = "Frequently mutated")

# add a title to the plot
lgat_plot <- lgat_plot + labs(title = "LGAT mutation counts")

# view the plot
lgat_plot
```

Now let's repeat that for the medulloblastoma data.

```{r}
mb_plot <- plot_gene_mutations(mb_df, 
                               highlight_genes = flags_df$gene, 

>                               highlight_title = "Frequently mutated")

Reviewer: spacing

We won't have to worry about whether a partial path ends with a separator slash  (`/`) or not; `file.path()` will add it as needed!

```{r inputs}
# Set the directory where the counts files are found
counts_dir <- here::here("analyses", "mutation_counts")

# File paths to the counts files for LGAT and medulloblastoma
lgat_path <- file.path(counts_dir, "LGAT_gene-mutations.tsv")
mb_path <- file.path(counts_dir, "Medulloblastoma_gene-mutations.tsv")

# Reference directory & FLAGS (frequently mutated genes)
ref_dir <- here::here("data", "reference")
flags_path <- file.path(ref_dir, "FLAGS.txt")
```

While a rendered version of this notebook complete with plots will be saved in the same location as this file, it can be useful to have a separate location for "presentation-ready" plots.
You might have that as a subfolder of the analysis folder, or, as we do here, a separate `plots` location that might be used for multiple analyses.
We still want to keep that separate location organized, so we will make a subfolder to hold the output from this particular analysis.

```{r outputs}
# set the directory to save output plots

> plots_dir <- here::here("plots", "mutation_counts")

Reviewer: 👍

Importantly, we will be sure to include some comments with documentation of the arguments for the function, as well as a description of what the function will return.

To make these comments a bit more structured, we could use a format called `roxygen` for these comments, which would be useful for automatically generating documentation if we were creating an R package.
We aren't generating separate documentation files here, but it is still a nice enough convention, and RStudio has an option in the `Code` menu called `Insert Roxygen Skeleton` that can save us a bunch of typing and create the outline of what we need in a single step.

```{r mutation_plot_function}
#' Plot the number of  mutations for each gene from a data frame
#'  Filters to a cutoff and sorts genes from most to least mutated, 
#'  and optionally highlights genes of interest.
#'
#' @param mutations_df A data frame with columns `Hugo_Symbol` and `mutated_samples`
#' @param min_mutated The minimum `mutated_samples` value to include in the plot
#'  (default: 3)
#' @param highlight_genes A vector of genes to highlight in the plot (optional)

> #' @param highlight_title The title for the highlighted genes legend 

Reviewer: Indicate the default here
